Exotic Class items text for engineeeeer7

// Relativism
Spirit of Caliban, Spirit of the Liar
This is combination a lot of Guardians are chasing for Huntere melee builds. You can use any grenade, but Grapple grenade with the melee follow-up also counts to proc Caliban's. For the melee ability, the Threaded Spike melee can chain multiple ignitions, or a more traditional Combination Blow is a natual pairing to the Liar intrinsic side. Then Gambler's Dodge near enemies to get your melee back and repeat until the room's clear. The Caliban ignitions will stun Overload champions, but as you'll be up close, you might need to think about a bit of invisibility, damage resistance and/or healing somewhere else in your subclass setup and armour mods. So maybe try Stylish Executioner and Winter's Shroud Aspects (dodge applies slow nearby, and then killing slowed enemies makes you invisible), and then Facets of Sacrifice, Courage, Dawn, Protection, and Ruin - Protection gives you +15% DR in a crowd (+30% when Transcendent), powered melee hits from Dawn make you radiant for a +25% damage boost (and to pierce Barrier Champions with your weapons), while you're radiant you get bonus darkness transcendence energy from kills with Sacrifice, Courage increases light-based damage against darkness debuffed enemies (so more ignition damage against slowed/severed enemies), and Ruin increases the size of ignitions. If you're looking for healing then, maybe swap out Sacrifice for Blessing, which starts health regeneration on melee kills. 

Spirit of Galanor, Spirit of the Star Eater
If you'd like an exotic cloak combination that just passively makes every super better without really having to think about it, this is the one to use. or end-game use, maybe Deadfall Tether and Silence and Squall work best, as you're not so exposed to return fire while they're active. Spirit of Galanor returns super energy on hits and final blows, while Spirit of the Star Eater boosts super damage by up to 70% at six stacks, just by picking up orbs. It's that easy! Aspects and Fragments will largely depend on your super, and neutral game buildcrafting goals, so there's not really any specific recommendations. 

(Spirit of Renewal, Spirit of Inmost Light), Spirit of the Cyrtarachne
This is a combination that boosts your neutral game with two possible ways to go - Renewal and Cyrtarachne (a genus of orb-weaver spiders, seeing as you're asking) or Inmost Light and Cyrtarachne. Throwing the grenade in either case with Cyrtarachne grants Woven Mail for -45% damage reduction. With Renewal, you're restricted to Duskfield Grenades, but they are good with the slowing and freezing effective on Overload and Unstoppable Champions, plus Renewal's effect of reducing damage output from enemies by -50% and providing allies with Frost Armour. With Spirit of Inmost Light, you can use any grenade (although Duskfield is still very good) and rely on the short cooldown of your Gambler's Dodge with Combination Blow to keep the fast ability regeneration going. The Facet of Balance, in particular, is good here to boost grenade energy on rapid darkness kills, but Aspects and Fragments will largely depend on your super, and neutral game buildcrafting goals, so there's not really any specific recommendations.

(Spirit of the Assassin, Spirit of Inmost Light), Spirit of Synthoceps
One to help reclaim punchy-punchy builds from Titans, with a pretty simple gameplay loop - Synthoceps increases your melee damage by ×3 for 6s when you have 3+ enemies nearby, while either Assassin makes you invisible on a melee or finisher kill or Inmost Light improves your abilities and regen rate as you use them. This cries out for use with the Gambler's Dodge class ability to keep you punching, dodging and regenerating health, the Combination Blow melee, Grapple grenade, and Winter's Shroud and Stylish Executioner aspects for a pretty much one-Guardian army (while there are Minor adds to kill, anyway), although be warned that sometimes the damage can be confusingly inconsistent. You'll almost certainly need Facets of Dawn, Protection and Blessing to boost DR, healing and damage further with your CQC melee gameplay. 

Spirit of Inmost Light, Spirit of Verity
This is a trait combination for grenade builds for everyday use - something to throw on that will just work in the background without too much effort. One the one hand, Inmost Light will boost abilities and regeneration time just by using them, while Verity can boost grenade damage by up to ×2 on matching weapon damage. Pretty much super, ability, aspect and fragment agnostic (although your weapon elemental damage type will need to match your grenade), so you can just use them to flesh out your preferred gameplay style. 

Spirit of the Foetracer, Spirit of the Star-Eater
A great trait combination to use for burst boss damage - Star-Eater boosts super damage by up to ×1.7 on picking up power orbs and then once out of your super you'll get ×1.25 boost to matching elemental damage for 10s (which can be reprocced by damaging the boss with another matching ability). Ideally you'll need a burst damage super like Storm's Edge and then swap to your arc boss damage weapon of choice. As this is aimed at boss damage, you can choose your abilities, aspects and fragments to support your preferred gameplay objectives. 

Spirit of the Foetracer, Spirit of Verity
This trait combination offers a nice, simple gameplay loop for offensive grenade builds - first Foetracer provides a ×1.25 for 10s to weapon damage on damaging an enemy with a matching ability, which then feeds kills into Verity stacks to boost grenade damage by up to ×2. Neither boosts grenade ability recharge rate, so you might want to look at a matching element weapon with the Demolitionist trait, and/or using aspects and fragments that do the same, or which improve your grenade use further. 

Spirit of Renewal, Spirit of the Star-Eater
With the nerf to Well of Radiance, this trait pairing provides Star-Eater's up to ×1.7 boost to super damage by picking up power orbs, and improving your fireteam's survivability, through Renewal's generation of Frost Armor and ×0.5 reduction in enemy damage output when standing inside a Duskfield Grenade's radius. To regain grenade energy quickly after your super ends, you might look at Facets of Balance (to use with a Stasis/Strand primary weapon), and maybe also Courage to boost damage for a Gathering Storm super, but otherwise melee, aspects and fragments can be used to support your gameplay objectives. 


// Stoicism
Spirit of Inmost Light, Spirit of Synthoceps
At the time of writing, Consecration Aspect builds are very strong, and this is the ideal intrinsic perk combination to take advantage of its room-clearing ability, and Unstoppable Champion stopping power through ignitions. Synthoceps boosts melee damage by 200% while in CQC with 3 or more enemies, while Inmost Light helps recover your melee energy as fast as possible by using your other abilities. Choose Frenzied Blade to start with three charges to sue with Consecration, Thruster or Rally Barricade for the shortest cooldown, and a Grapple grenade for another source of darkness debuff. You can pair that with a Drengr's Lash or Diamond Lance Aspect for even more sources of darkness debuffs. For fragments, Facets of Courage, Balance, Dawn, Protection and Ruin play well - Balance returns melee energy on rapid light energy kills (which you'll be getting plenty of with Consecration), Protection gives you +15% DR in a crowd (+30% when Transcendent), powered melee hits from Dawn make you radiant for a +25% damage boost (and to pierce Barrier Champions with your weapons), while you're radiant you get bonus darkness transcendence energy from kills with Sacrifice, Courage increases light-based damage against darkness debuffed enemies (so more ignition damage against slowed/severed enemies), and Ruin increases the size of ignitions.

Spirit of the Eternal Warrior, Spirit of Star Eater
Titans have typically struggled to keep up with other subclasses during boss damage phases in the past, but this combination of passive intrinsic perks should help level the playing field. Star Eater boosts super damage by +70% at six stacks, while Eternal Warrier grants four stacks of a matching weapon surge, boosting damage by +25% for 30s - this will stack with weapon boosts like Bait and Switch, Explosive Light and Firing Line. If you use the void Twilight Arsenal super for quick burst damage at the start of a DPS phase, you can combine that with your void boss DPS weapon of choice. Aspects and Fragments will largely depend on your neutral game buildcrafting goals, so there's not really any specific recommendations.

Spirit of Severance, (Spirit of Contact, Spirit of Synthoceps)
If you're a Titan and like punching things… (well, why else would you play Titan?), then this is a fun set of intrinsic trait combinations to play with that add additional AoE damage, and either Jolting (excellent for bonus target and AoE damage, and disrupting Overload Champions) with Contact or +200% melee damage with Synthoceps. Grapple grenades supply darkness debuffs by suspending targets, and you could choose Thrust or Rally Barricade for a class ability with a short cooldown. Drengr's Lash and Diamond Lance Aspect serve as additional sources of darkness debuffs. For fragments, Facets of Courage, Balance, Dawn, Protection and Blessing play well - Balance returns melee energy on rapid light energy kills (which you'll be getting plenty of with Jolt), Protection gives you +15% DR in a crowd (+30% when Transcendent), Blessing starts health regeneration on melee kills, powered melee hits from Dawn make you radiant for a +25% damage boost (and to pierce Barrier Champions with your weapons), and Courage increases light-based damage against darkness debuffed enemies (so more Jolt damage against slowed/suspended enemies).And, seeing as you're asking, Stoicism is a philisophical theory holding that wise people should be free from passion, unmoved by joy or grief.

Spirit of Inmost Light, Spirit of Contact
If you're a Titan and like punching things… (well, why else would you play Titan?), then this is a fun set of intrinsic trait combinations to play with that add additional AoE damage and  Jolting (excellent for disrupting Overload Champions) with Contact. Grapple grenades supply darkness debuffs by suspending targets and you could choose Thrust or Rally Barricade for a class ability with a short cooldown for Inmost Light has a high uptime. Drengr's Lash and Diamond Lance Aspect serve as additional sources of darkness debuffs. For fragments, Facets of Courage, Balance, Dawn, Protection and Blessing play well - Balance returns melee energy on rapid light energy kills (which you'll be getting plenty of with Jolt), Protection gives you +15% DR in a crowd (+30% when Transcendent), Blessing starts health regeneration on melee kills, powered melee hits from Dawn make you radiant for a +25% damage boost (and to pierce Barrier Champions with your weapons), and Courage increases light-based damage against darkness debuffed enemies (so more Jolt damage against slowed/suspended enemies).

Spirit of the Abeyant, Spirit of the Horn
More for fun than anything else, this intrinsic perk pairing sends out a suspending wave (which will stun an Unstoppable champion), and and solar scorching blast when casting your barricade (it down't trigger properly using Thrust, unfortunately). Neither is particulary strong in an endgame environment on their own, so probably not for a GM Nightfall. You'll obviously need to use the Drengr's Lash Aspect, but the other is dealer's choice and Fragments of Hope, Courage, Protection and Purpose play well - picking up orbs applies a beneficial subclass verb to yourself with Purpose, and while that verb is active Hope boosts the barricade ability recharge rate on kills; Protection gives you +15% DR in a crowd (+30% when Transcendent) and Courage boosts the scorch damage on a suspended enemy.

Spirit of Inmost Light, Spirit of the Star-Eater
An all-purpose, throw it on and forget about it trait pairing which provides Star-Eater's up to ×1.7 boost to super damage by picking up power orbs together with Inmost Light's boost to your abilities and regeneration time just by using them. Pretty much super, ability, aspect and fragment agnostic, so you can just use them to flesh out your preferred gameplay style.

Spirit of Inmost Light, Spirit of Scars
An all-purpose, throw it on and forget about it trait pairing which provides Inmost Light's boost to your abilities and regeneration time just by using them with cure healing for you and your nearby fireteam for weapon kills that match your super's energy type. Pretty much super, ability, aspect and fragment agnostic as long as you have a matching weapon to proc Scars, so you can just use them to flesh out your preferred gameplay style. 

Spirit of the Bear, Spirit of the Star-Eater
This trait pairing is aimed at regaining your super quickly, with Bear using hits on the Unbreakable aspect's shield to speed up its regeneration time, and then Star-Eater's up to ×1.7 boost to super damage by picking up power orbs. Your build will focus on grenade ability regeneration, to use with Unbreakable, and super damage - so Facets of Courage, for additional ability damage against darkness-debuffed targets, Balance, to boost grenade energy on darkness kills, Purpose, for DR or healing on an orb pickup, and Solitude to sever targets to use with Courage all look like useful additions to the kit, together with a Stasis or Strand Demolitionist weapon and a Light-based super.


// Solipsism
Spirit of Apotheosis, (Spirit of Star Eater, Spirit of Harmony)
A decent all-purpose pairing - either overcharge your super with up to +70% damage at six stacks with Star Eater for boss fights or get your super faster with a weapon matching your super's energy type with Harmony while add-clearing, and then come out of the super with an ability to spam grenades and melees. Maybe one to use with a full set of Pale Heart weapons with the Dealer's Choice origin trait, for faster super recharge - with two excellent Strand weapons in the set, in The Call and Pro Memoria, that would pair well with the Needlestorm super, so you can use your super for burst damage on a boss and get straight into weapons and ability spam. Aspects and Fragments will largely depend on your super, and neutral game buildcrafting goals, so there's not really any specific recommendations.

// Spirit of the Stag, Spirit of Harmony
Maybe one for the Vault for now - this is just in case Well of Radiance ever gets a little love. How likely that is, you can decide! It's a pretty simple concept - Harmony solar kills get your super back faster - pair it with No Hesitation and a couple of other Pale Heart weapons with the Dealer's Choice origin perks, and you should have a super for every boss damage phase. With Stag, everyone in the Well gets resist x2 for -25% damage resistance - and while that isn't enough on its own to survive when you're underlevelled, it should be good enough in general, at-level, content. 

Spirit of Osmiomancy, Spirit of Verity
rimarily for grenade-focussed builds, you're using Osmiomancy more for the improved grenade energy regeneration on hits side of the perk, and not for the improved Coldsnap seekers, so you can use any grenade except Healing - Storm and Vortex are probably strongest. The Verity perk provides a +20% bonus to grenade damage per stack, up to 100% at 5 stacks with weapon damage matching your super. With the rest of a prismatic build, Song of Flame as the super is just too good not to use at the time of writing, with Arcane Needle for three melee charges. The Feed the Void Aspect is an obvious choice to proc Devour when you use your grenade, then choose between Hellion or Weaver's Call for the other. Depending on the grenade ability you choose, Facets of Courage, Balance, Dawn, Protection, and Dominance can work - Courage increases light-based damage against darkness debuffed enemies (so more grenade damage against unravelled enemies), Balance returns melee energy on rapid light energy kills (which you'll be getting plenty of with your grenades and solar weapon kills), powered melee hits from Dawn make you radiant for a +25% damage boost (and to pierce Barrier Champions with your weapons), Protection gives you +15% DR in a crowd (+30% when Transcendent), and Dominance grants weaken to void grenades or jolting to arc grenades. 

Spirit of the Necrotic, Spirit of the Claw;
Primarily for melee-focussed builds, but there's also some synergy with the Weapons of Sorrow and glaive lovers. It's pretty simple - Claw provides an additional melee charge, Necrotic melees poison enemies and killing poisoned enemies spreads the poison. The additional damage isn't huge, but it prevents shield regeneration and lets you keep track of an enemy's position. Necrotic also works with glaive melee attacks (so you might want to bring one with the "Close to Melee" trait perk) and Weapons of Sorrow, and Claw also works with the Song of Flame super to give you two finger snaps. Alongside this in a prismatic build, Arcane Needle gives you three melee charges at base, and four with Claw and you can choose pretty much any grenade. For Aspects, Feed the Void will proc Devour on an ability kill, paired with Lightning Surge to use melee charges to Jolt enemies or Hellion for solar scorching and kills. Facets of Courage, Balance, Dawn, Protection and Blessing play well - Balance returns melee energy on rapid light energy kills (which you'll be getting plenty of with Jolt or the Hellion mortar), Protection gives you +15% DR in a crowd (+30% when Transcendent), Blessing starts health regeneration on melee kills, powered melee hits from Dawn make you radiant for a +25% damage boost (and to pierce Barrier Champions with your weapons), and Courage increases light-based damage against darkness debuffed enemies (so more Jolt/Hellion damage against frozen/unravelled enemies).

Spirit of the Stag, Spirit of Vesper
Want to feel even more safe in your rift? Stag and Vesper is a simple, proc-free combination to drop your rift while Ghost decrypts the same code its been working on for the last 10 years in the Devil's Lair, and gain x2 Resist for a damage reduction of -25% with Horn, and send out a regular arc shockwave to dissuade any meleeing enemies with nefarious intentions with Vesper. If you want to summon a personal army while you're there, the Hellion and Weaver's Call Aspects both proc on a rift cast. Arcane Needle gives you three melee charges which apply strand unravelling to enemies, and the grenade if dealer's choice - Healing Grenade if you want another source of healing, Coldsnap if you want a source of darkness debuff, or Storm or Vortex to damage enemies. Alongside those you might consider Facets of Sacrifice to generate bonus darkness transcendence energy from kills while you have light elemental buff, Devotion to grant bonus light transcendent energy ftom killing enemies debuffed by darkness debuffs, Hope to recover ability energy while you have an elemental buff, Purpose to provide an elemental buff on power orb pickup, and Protection to give you +15% DR in a crowd (+30% when Transcendent). You could swap out Devotion for Courage to provide bonus damage from light abilities to enemies with a darkness debuff, or Dominance to improve arc/void grenades.

(Spirit of Inmost Light, Spirit of Osmiomancy), Spirit of the Swarm
One for Strand builds that aim to maximise Threadling generation in general content. The play loop is pretty simple - use Inmost Light to empower your abilities and speed up regeneration, or Osmiomancy to boost grenade regeneration and then use them (and weapons) to create Tangles which generate Threadlings when they're destroyed, through Swarm. If you're going all in to an army of Threadlings build, the Weaver's Call aspect is an obvious choice, and you'll probably want Facet of Honor, Awakening and maybe Solitude to create more Tangles and benefit from destroying them, or your own choice of fragments to boost the utility of your grenade, melee and rift, and gameplay preferences. 

Spirit of Osmiomancy, Spirit of the Star-Eater
If you're looking for an all-purpose trait pairing to just throw on and not think about, that boosts grenade recharge rate and super damage, then Osmiomancy for the boost to grenade regeneration on grenade hits (we'll ignore the improved Coldsnap seekers) and Star-Eater to boost super damage by up to ×1.7 by picking up power orbs. You'll want an AoE grenade for maximum effect on Osmiomancy, and then it's pretty much dealer's choice on weapons, super, aspects and fragments to support your gameplay preferences - maybe an AoE grenade like Vortex with the Feed the Void aspect to proc Devour, and Facets of Bravery for void weapon volatile rounds and Dominance to weaken enemies with grenades too?
